---
layout: book
title: Meteorite Landings
date: 2022-05-22 15:47:21 -0500
categories: science
img: "/portfolio_site_s22/assets/thumbnails/sunh.png"
---

<b>Author: Haoxuan Sun</b>

Description: My interest of this visualization is to find out the pattern within
meteorite landing across the world and in the U.S. The dataset is from Kaggle
and containing name, id, type, class, mass, whether the landing is observed,
year, and coordinates. My visualization contains two parts: Visualization of
Meteor Landing Spatial Data, and Visualization of Meteor Landing Time Series
Data.

Visualization of global spatial data help answers two questions; whether the
meteors’ landing is seen by people, and what is the mass of each meteor. I
convert the data frame into an sf object and plot out the points on the world to
answer the first question. I encoded the size of points with mass of the meteors
to visualize their mass. My visualization of U.S. meteor data answers where and
when did the meteors landed on the U.S. mainland, and what is the mass of them.
I encoded the points’ size with mass and color with year, so the larger points
show larger mass, deeper color shows more recent landings.

Visualization of meteorite landing time series data helps answer the question
that how the number of meteors landings on Earth changes over time is, and how
is the number of observed and found meteors differ. I convert original data
frame into a time series and visualizing it with `geom_line()` with faceting by
its landing is seen or not. Since there are far more meteors that are found than
seen, I choose the free scales to make the height of the graph visible.
<a href="https://data-viz.it.wisc.edu/content/0fbc8d7a-6d69-49df-80ab-4f9a4f96cb69">Read the portfolio by clicking here.</a>

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
